---
layout:     post
title:      Socket
subtitle:   Network assignment
date:       2017-10-07
author:     Shine
header-img: img/post-bg-ios9-web.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Network
    - c
---
# Socket 
tutorial:
[http://http://www.cs.rpi.edu/~moorthy/Courses/os98/Pgms/socket.html](http://http://www.cs.rpi.edu/~moorthy/Courses/os98/Pgms/socket.html "tutorial")

### file descriptor table ###
Each running process has a file descriptor table which
contains pointers to all open i/o streams.  When a process
starts, three entries are created in the first three cells of
the table.  Entry 0 points to standard input, entry 1 points
to standard output, and entry 2 points to standard error.
Whenever a file is opened, a new entry is created in this
table, usually in the first available empty slot.

The socket system call returns an entry into this table; i.e.
a small integer.  This value is used for other calls which
use this socket.  The accept system call returns another
entry into this table.  The value returned by accept is used
for reading and writing to that connection.

### code ###

    `
/* A simple server in the internet domain using TCP
   The port number is passed as an argument */
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/types.h> 
#include <sys/socket.h>
#include <netinet/in.h>

void error(char *msg)
{
    perror(msg);
    exit(1);
}

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
     int sockfd, newsockfd, portno, clilen;
     char buffer[256];
     struct sockaddr_in serv_addr, cli_addr;
     int n;
     if (argc < 2) {
         fprintf(stderr,"ERROR, no port provided\n");
         exit(1);
     }
     sockfd = socket(AF_INET, SOCK_STREAM, 0);
     if (sockfd < 0) 
        error("ERROR opening socket");
     bzero((char *) &serv_addr, sizeof(serv_addr));
     portno = atoi(argv[1]);
     serv_addr.sin_family = AF_INET;
     serv_addr.sin_addr.s_addr = INADDR_ANY;
     serv_addr.sin_port = htons(portno);
     if (bind(sockfd, (struct sockaddr *) &serv_addr,
              sizeof(serv_addr)) < 0) 
              error("ERROR on binding");
     listen(sockfd,5);
     clilen = sizeof(cli_addr);
     newsockfd = accept(sockfd, (struct sockaddr *) &cli_addr, &clilen);
     if (newsockfd < 0) 
          error("ERROR on accept");
     bzero(buffer,256);
     n = read(newsockfd,buffer,255);
     if (n < 0) error("ERROR reading from socket");
     printf("Here is the message: %s\n",buffer);
     n = write(newsockfd,"I got your message",18);
     if (n < 0) error("ERROR writing to socket");
     return 0; 
}

`
    

