---
layout:     post
title:      冲破思维屏障：让你哭笑不得的5种美式冷笑话！
subtitle:   engVid超级外交精选
date:       2018-04-30
author:     Rebecca.Wu
header-img: img/2899.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - 英语
---

<blockquote><p>I'm not saying these are the only types of jokes.</p></blockquote>

Now, if you're learning a language, learning jokes in that language is usually, like, one of the final barriers you have to (pueaa)punch through before you can claim to be, like, a full mastered speaker person thing in that language.

#### Type1

Q:What's the difference between X and Y?
Eg:What's the difference between **mashed potatoes** and **pea soup**?<br/> 

Press the left key to circle the space to see the answer!
<p style="color:white">
    A:You can mashed the potatoes,but you can't pee/pi/ soup.
    pee's pronuniation is the same as pea/pi/ :smile: .
</p>

#### Type2

Q:What's the X have in common with Y?
Eg:What does a banana have in common with a millon dollars?<br/> 

Press the left key to circle the space to see the answer!
<p style="color:white">
    A:They both have appeal(a peel).
    A banana has a peel and a millon dollars has appeal it means it is attractive like:"Hmm,I want a millon dollars." 
</p>

#### Tpye3

Q:What do you call a/an...?
Eg:What do you call a computer that sings?<br/> 

Press the left key to circle the space to see the answer!
<p style="color:white">
    A:A Dell(Adele)
</p>

#### Tpye4

Q:Why did/do/does/is/was/were...?
Eg:Why was the math book sad?<br/> 

Press the left key to circle the space to see the answer!
<p style="color:white">
    A:Because it has too many problems.
</p>

#### Tpye5

Q:Knock,knock Jokes
Eg:Knock,knock<br/>
(Who's there?)<br/>
Lettuce<br/>
(Lettuce who?) <br/>

Press the left key to circle the space to see the answer!
<p style="color:white">
    A:Let us in.It's cold out here.
</p>



