---
layout:     post
title:      rails gem 包安裝
subtitle:   MySQL
date:       2018-08-03
author:     zxll
catalog: true
tags:
    - rails
    - gem
    - mysql
---


##查詢本地gem

```
    gem list --local |grep '('

```



##gem 包獲取

```
    wget 下載或者其他方式
    
```

##安裝

    cd /usr/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/cache/
    gem install mysql-2.7.gem -- --with-mysql-dir=/usr/local/mysql5530/
    cd /usr/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/mysql-2.7
    ruby extconf.rb --with-mysql-dir=/usr/local/mysql5530/
    make && make install

##確認


    gem list --local
    cd /home/path

    ps -auwxf | grep mongrel_rails 
    mongrel_rails cluster::stop 
    ps -auwxf | grep mongrel_rails 
    mongrel_rails cluster::start 
    ps -auwxf | grep mongrel_rails


##卸載
   gem uninstall (gem-name)

##其他

 gem --help

 RubyGems is a sophisticated package manager for Ruby.  This is a
 basic help message containing pointers to more information.

  Usage:
    gem -h/--help
    gem -v/--version
    gem command [arguments...] [options...]

  Examples:
    gem install rake
    gem list --local
    gem build package.gemspec
    gem help install

  Further help:
    gem help commands            list all 'gem' commands
    gem help examples            show some examples of usage
    gem help <COMMAND>           show help on COMMAND
                                   (e.g. 'gem help install')

 

##Examples
 
    *** LOCAL GEMS ***

    actionmailer (1.2.5)
        Service layer for easy email delivery and testing.

    actionpack (1.12.5)
        Web-flow and rendering framework putting the VC in MVC.

    actionwebservice (1.1.6)
        Web service support for Action Pack.

    activerecord (1.14.4)
        Implements the ActiveRecord pattern for ORM.

    activesupport (1.3.1)
        Support and utility classes used by the Rails framework.

    daemons (0.4.4)
        A toolkit to create and control daemons in different ways

    gem_plugin (0.2.1)
        A plugin system based only on rubygems that uses dependencies only

    hoe (1.2.2)
        Hoe is a way to write Rakefiles much easier and cleaner.

    mongrel (0.3.13.3)
        A small fast HTTP library and server that runs Rails, Camping, and
        Nitro apps.

    mongrel_cluster (0.2.0)
        Mongrel plugin that provides commands and Capistrano tasks for
        managing multiple Mongrel processes.

    mysql (2.7)
        MySQL/Ruby provides the same functions for Ruby programs that the
        MySQL C API provides for C programs.

    net-sftp (2.0.4)
        A pure Ruby implementation of the SFTP client protocol

    net-ssh (2.0.17)
        Net::SSH: a pure-Ruby implementation of the SSH2 client protocol.

    rails (1.1.6)
        Web-application framework with template engine, control-flow layer,
        and ORM.

    rake (0.7.3, 0.7.1)
        Ruby based make-like utility.

    rmagick (1.13.0)
        RMagick is an interface between the Ruby programming language and
        the ImageMagick and GraphicsMagick image processing libraries.

    ruby-hmac (0.3.1)
        An implementation of the HMAC authentication code in Ruby.

    rubyforge (0.4.2)
        A simplistic script which automates a limited set of rubyforge
        operations

    rubygems-update (1.3.6)
        RubyGems is a package management framework for Ruby

    sources (0.0.1)
        This package provides download sources for remote gem installation




