---
layout:     post
title:      ETH鸟瞰冷原子物理 
subtitle:   ETH物理资源
date:       2019-05-06
author:     JPZhuang
header-img: img/https://www.ethz.ch/content/specialinterest/phys/theoretical-physics/theoretical-physics/en/jcr:content/fullwidthimageHome/image.imageformat.carousel.436430388.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - link
    - ETH
    - 资源
---


## 前言

在查找资料的时候，常常看到来自ETH的优秀资源，做个记录。

## The Group

[The Group pf Prof. Dr. Sebastian Huber](https://www.ethz.ch/content/specialinterest/phys/theoretical-physics/cmtm/en/the-group.html) are interested in the theoretical study of interacting many-particle systems in and out of equilibrium. Our focus lies on geometrically frustrated systems, topological states of matter, and experimental implementation of these ideas in mechanical and quantum-optical systems.

Our research focusses on exploring the properties and behaviours of many-body systems, from artificially designed 'topomechanical' materials with properties that go beyond those of their building blocks, to driven interacting systems out of equilibrium, to many-body states in ultracold atomic gases.


#### Topology in Condensed Matter

关于凝聚态中的拓扑一个简单的介绍，包含[文献](https://www.ethz.ch/content/specialinterest/phys/theoretical-physics/cmtm/en/research/topology-in-condensed-matter.html)，并从更基本的gapped和gappeless来看待 

Colloquially, by a topological classification we mean that we can assign an integer property to quantum mechanical system which depends on its global strucuture only. In other words, no local probe or small local change to the system parameters can change this integer: it is topologically protected.

Traditional phases that were classified in such a topological framework include the integer [1] and fractional quantum Hall effects [2] and the more recently discovered topological insulators and superconductors [3]. All of these equillibrium systems have a finite gapbetween the ground state and the first excited state. This gap enables a controlled derivation of a topological field theory for the low energy behavior. From that perspective, gapless or driven systems seem not to be classifiable by a topological index.

Recent developments have shown indications of the contrary, however [4] [5]. In one particular case of strongly interacting lattice bosons in a weak magnetic field we could show that the gapless superfluid phase is intersected by lines of topological transitions where the Hall conductivity jumps by an integer value [6].

We plan to extend this exciting new direction of using standard tools known from the description of gapped topologic matter to the deeper understanding of gapless or driven quantum phases

[1] D. J. Thouless et al., Phys. Rev. Lett.,49405 (1982)
[2] X.-G. Wen, Adv. in Phys.,44405 (1995)
[3] M. Z. Hasan, C. L. Kane, Rev. Mod. Phys.,823045 (2010)
[4] N. H. Lindner, G. Refael, V. Galitski, Nature Phys.,7490 (2011)
[5] S. Diehl, E. Rico, M. A. Baranov, P. Zoller, Nature Phys.,7971 (2011)
[6] S. D. Huber, N. H. Lindner, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA,10819925 (2011)
[7] J. Ruhman, E. G. Dalla Torre, S. D. Huber, E. Altman, Phys. Rev. B, 85 125121 (2012)

#### Cold Atoms

[用冷原子来模拟哈密顿量](https://www.ethz.ch/content/specialinterest/phys/theoretical-physics/cmtm/en/research/probing-cold-atoms.html) 

The use of cold atoms in simulating interesting open questions of condensed matter physics has seen a tremendous success in recent years [1]. One key aspect is their almost perfect isolation from the environment. What proofs to be an asset in implementing a “designed” Hamiltonian turns out to be a major obstruction to the investigation of the resulting physics.

In our research we focus on the development of the theoretical framework for new investigative tools adapted to the cold atoms setup. We are mainly interested in strongly correlated lattice systems where we showed how to extract coherence porperties from a bosonic or fermionic Mott insulator [2]. Moreover, we pointed out how the “Higgs mode” close to a quantum phase transition can be measured [3][4]. Recent experiments verified our predictions [5]. We make use of a broad range of analytical tools, however, if necessary we develop new approaches to tackle the many-body problems at hand [6].

Another consequence of the high degree of isolation is the ability to study pure non-equilibrium dynamics. In the past we studied mainly one-dimensional systems, in particular coupled tubes of interacting quantum liquids that undergo quantum quenches [7] or slow Landau-Zener dyanamics [8].

We plan to extend these studies by investigating the non-equilibrium dynamics of strongly correlated systems, in particular their topological properties. We believe that by focusing on the peculiarities  of new engineered quantum systems like cold atoms or micro-structured solid state devices like NV centers in diamonds, coupled microwave cavities, etc., we can make new discoveries in a developing field of topological phases out of equilibrium.

[1] I. Bloch, J. Dalibard, W. Zwerger, Rev. Mod. Phys.,80885 (2008)
[2] N Fabbri, S.D. Huber et al., Phys. Rev. Lett.,109055301 (2012)
[3] S. D. Huber, E. Altman, H. P. Büchler, G. Blatter, Phys. Rev. B,75085106 (2007)
[4] S. D. Huber, B. Theiler, E. Altman, G. Blatter, Phys. Rev. Lett.,100050404 (2008)
[5] M. Endres et al, Nature,487454 (2012)
[6] A. Rüegg, S. D. Huber, M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. B,81155118 (2010)
[7] S. D. Huber, E. Altman, Phys. Rev. Lett.,103160402 (2009)
[8] Y.-A. Chen, S. D. Huber, S. Trotzky, I. Bloch, E. Altman, Nature Phys.,761 (2011)



## The Lecture

而这三个基础描述是必须添加的：

- **量子气体**：
[Frontiers of Quantum Gas Research  Lectures （ETH）](https://www.quantumoptics.ethz.ch/fileadmin/content/lectures/quantumgases/FrontiersOfQuantumGasResearch/Lectures7-12PTormaETH.pdf) 

- **多体少体**：[Frontiers of Quantum Gas Research: Few- and Many-Body Physics](https://www.quantumoptics.ethz.ch/fileadmin/content/lectures/quantumgases/FrontiersOfQuantumGasResearch/Lectures7-12PTormaETH.pdf) 

- **凝聚态中的拓扑数**：[Topological quantum numbers in condensed matter systems](https://www.ethz.ch/content/specialinterest/phys/theoretical-physics/cmtm/en/education/spring-semester-2013--topological-quantum-numbers-in-condensed-m.html) 

