---
layout:     post
title:      Avoided Crossings
subtitle:   General Level Repulsion
date:       2019-05-10
author:     JPZhuang
header-img: img/post-bg-iWatch.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - CMP

---

<head>
    <script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
        MathJax.Hub.Config({
            tex2jax: {
            skipTags: ['script', 'noscript', 'style', 'textarea', 'pre'],
            inlineMath: [['$','$']]
            }
        });
    </script>
</head>


> Suppose we have a Hamiltonian that depends on various real parameters. When tuning the values of these parameters, the energy eigenvalues will often avoid crossing each other. Why?

In condensed matter physics, avoided crossings are ubiquitous, arising in phonon spectra, electronic band spectra and often when different types of quasi-particles interact.

## Crossings Level

Consider what happens if there is a crossing. A crossing would imply a degeneracy in the system. A degeneracy would imply a symmetry. It would be unnatural for a perturbation to introduce a symmetry into a system, and so the eigenvalues cannot cross generically, but can under special circumstances

symmetry $\rightarrow$ degeneracy $\rightarrow$ avoided crossing $\rightarrow$ band gap


## An example in two-state systems

 s-d Hamiltonian 

$$ 
H=-t \sum_{i} c_{i}^{+} c_{i+1}+h . c .+E_{0} \sum_{i} d_{i}^{+} d_{i}+\sum_{i} \Delta c_{i}^{+} d_{i}+h . c .
 $$

electron in an s-orbital, electron in a d-orbital, t is the hopping parameter, $E_0$ is the energy of an electron in a d-orbital and $\Delta$ is the hopping amplitude from an s- to a d-orbital

$$ 
h(k)=\left( \begin{array}{cc}{2 t \cos (k a)} & {\Delta} \\ {\Delta^{*}} & {E_{0}}\end{array}\right)
 $$
 
 for $\Delta=0$ case
 
 $$ 
h(k)=\left( \begin{array}{cc}{2 t \cos (k a)} & {0} \\ {0} & {E_{0}}\end{array}\right)
 $$
 
 - the eigenvalue $E_1=2t \cos (k a)$ and $E_2=E_0$, band crossing 
 - finite $\Delta$ avoided crossing

## general two-state systems

 consider a perturbation with only off diagonal elements. 
 
 $$ 
H^{\prime}=H+P=\left( \begin{array}{cc}{E_{1}} & {0} \\ {0} & {E_{2}}\end{array}\right)+\left( \begin{array}{cc}{0} & {W} \\ {W^{*}} & {0}\end{array}\right)=\left( \begin{array}{cc}{E_{1}} & {W} \\ {W^{*}} & {E_{2}}\end{array}\right)
 $$

 eigenvalues are
 
 $$ 
\begin{aligned} E_{+} &=\frac{1}{2}\left(E_{1}+E_{2}\right)+\frac{1}{2} \sqrt{\left(E_{1}-E_{2}\right)^{2}+4|W|^{2}} \\ E_{-} &=\frac{1}{2}\left(E_{1}+E_{2}\right)-\frac{1}{2} \sqrt{\left(E_{1}-E_{2}\right)^{2}+4|W|^{2}} \end{aligned}
 $$
 
## beyond electron energy bands

coupling between a plasmon and an optical phonon

One can very clearly see the plasmon (the broad peak) “becomes a logitudinal optical phonon” (the narrow peak) and the optical phonon “becomes the plasmon”. Notably, one can see that there is no coupling to the other (transverse) optical phonon because of symmetry reasons (plasmons cannot couple to transverse phonons), and it therefore stays put.

##  symmetry SOP

- If there is only one band maximum in the BZ, this point is one of the high-symmetry points of the BZ. 
- there are many points which are a band maximum and they are not at one of the high-symmetry points of the BZ. These points however are all connected by a symmetry operation.

An example of a system with band minima away from symmetry points are perhaps a little bit esoteric, like topological insulators, two-dimensional electron gases, ... In this case the spin-orbit coupling is responsible of the "splitting" of the band minimum in two points which are connected via chiral symmetry. 

## 参考文献

> Avoided crossing，From Wikipedia

> [An example in two-state systems](https://thiscondensedlife.wordpress.com/2015/06/01/avoided-crossings-level-repulsion-or-anti-crossing/)。

> beyond electron energy bands [Observation of the Interaction of Plasmons with Longitudinal Optical Phonons in GaAs](https://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.16.999)。

> [A basic quantum concept: energy level repulsion (avoided crossings)](http://condensedconcepts.blogspot.com/2016/09/a-basic-quantum-concept-energy-level.html)。

> symmetry  [Why are band maxima / minima often (always?) at high-symmetry points?](https://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/193420/why-are-band-maxima-minima-often-always-at-high-symmetry-points)

> symmetry SOP  [Spin-orbit coupling in quantum gases](https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1312/1312.3292.pdf)






